Gowk fault which is located west of the Lut-block east of Iran is one of the main and active structures in the region. To estimate the activity of this fault, we need to calculate its’ slip rate. The South part of the Gowk fault passes through the Golbaf Lake and has displaced the rivers which have cut the lake. The displacement is around 30 meters and if we can find the time of displacement we can then calculate the slip rate. One of the most useful methods to date the Quaternary sediments directly, is Luminescence dating. This method has been widely used and the range of materials that can be dated, using different procedures of luminescence dating, is being developed. In this paper, we are presenting part of the research which was done to sort out the problems that we had for dating the samples that were collected from the Golbaf lake. To measure the age of the samples, two parameters are needed; the equivalent dose and the dose rate. To determine the equivalent dose, the single aliquot regenerative dose (SAR) protocol was used. In this method, after measuring the natural signal, the sample is exposed to different known doses in the laboratory and the related luminescence signal is measured. Then, a standard growthcurve is built, which the equivalent dose can be calculated from.
To examine the suitability of the SAR protocol in dating the collected samples, the capability of this method in order to recover a known laboratory dose was investigated. We confronted some unexpected results while recovering the dose because the determined dose overestimated the certain given dose in the laboratory by around20 percent.  Three possible reasons were considered: methodological factors which can influence the determination of the equivalent dose, physical processes affecting the luminescence signal and technological factors(the measurement device).The first two reasons were assessed experimentally (according to tables 1 and 2).  Thirty aliquots were built from the GB3 feldspar sample and the Risoe automated TL/OSL DA-15 reader was employed for all experiments. The first 15 aliquots were used for determinations according to the left column in table1 (the cut heat is fixed).  The natural signal was depleted and after 10 hours gap, the signal was measured again (Figure1).  Then, all samples were exposed to 26 Gy dose (assuming as the natural dose), the procedure in the left hand side of table1 was followed to test the capability of SAR in recovering this dose. In table1, Lx shows Ln (natural luminescence signal) and LR (regenerative luminescence signal) and Tx shows Tn (natural test dose signal) and TR(regenerative test dose signal).The results in figure2 demonstrate that, the recovered dose is more than the given dose by approximately 20% (about 30 Gy).After that, the same procedure was followed for the next 15 aliquots according to the right column of table1, but with equal preheat and cutheat. The results are shown in figure3 which is the same as figure2.We then repeated one stage of the SAR protocol five times for each aliquot using a fixed dose and expected that the results for all to be similar. This stage was completed according to table2 for four aliquots. The results are shown in figures 4, 5 and 6. As is shown in figure 4, the first signal consists of more photons in comparison with the other signals. Figure 5 shows the regenerative dose and the test dose curves for the four aliquots in five cycles. As is clear in the diagram, the first point of the regenerative dose curve for all the four aliquots are more than the other points in the curve, for both IR and Post-IR methods. Figure 6 shows the Lx/Tx ratio. It can be explicitly seen that the first stage is 40% more than other stages. As all the luminescence signals following the test doses (Tx) are almost similar, this 40% difference cannot be due to sensitivity change.
The above experiments show that electron exchange from heat-sensitive traps to light-sensitive ones because of the preheat effect cannot be the reason for the dose recovery overestimate, since both IRSL and OSL signals measured 10 hours after natural measurements, are negligible in compare to natural signals.  Electron exchange from the light-sensitive traps to the heat-sensitive ones due to laser light and subsequently in the opposite pattern cannot be a possible reason since all the standard growth curves pass through the origin (figure 7).Incomplete evacuation of the electrons because of inadequate intensity and time of the laser beamis not responsible for the dose recovery overestimate because laser beam has been similar for all the stages through the experiments. Inability of the SAR protocol to correct the sensitivity according to heat, dose and light is not the case since the SAR method has provided almost similar result for the last four stage of figure 6.  
As the methodological and physical factors could not be the reason for overestimating the recovered dose in the laboratory, we focused on the third factor, technology. Although the device (TL/OSL DA-15 reader) is claimed to be complete and without any defect, some reports of its failure has been presented. The effect of the dose and light on adjacent aliquots as reported by Bray et. al (2002), was found to be responsible for dose overestimation. This is because of the packed arrangement of aliquots on a disk. Since we wanted to investigate and eliminate the possible effect of the radioactive dose and the laser beam on adjacent aliquots, we decided to rearrange the aliquots. So the same procedure presented in tables 1 and 2 was followed for aliquots 1, 4, 7, 10 and 13. The results have been shown in figures 10 and 11. Figure 10 shows the result of repeating a cycle for these aliquots. This figure demonstrates that there was not much sensitivity change for the sample in this case. Figure 11 shows that the SAR method was capable of recovering the dose properly at different temperatures, but 2400 and 2800 are the most suitable temperatures in this case.
So the problem was solved by putting the aliquots in every two other positions, and the SAR protocol could recover the given dose properly. We repeated this procedure by setting the aliquots in every other position too and the results were the same.  Based on above result we put the natural aliquots in every other position and determined the age of the GB3 sample.  This procedure provided an age of 4100 years for this sample. Similar approach was considered for calculating the age of other samples from the same site.  Detailed information about the process of dating and the slip rate of Gowk fault could be found in the paper ‘Determination of the slip rate on the Gowk fault’ by Fattahi et al. (submitted).

-----------------------------------------
Introduction: The effect of weeds on crop yield has been widely studied and models predicting the relationship between weed abundance and crop yield are useful for simulating yield loss and assisting with developing management guidelines. The herbicide doses recommended by manufacturers are selected to give reliable weed control without crop damage. There is a good potential to apply lower herbicide doses within competitive cropping systems. Wild mustard (Sinapis arvensis L.) is one of the most problematic annual weed in wheat fields of Iran. Herbicides especially the sulfonylurea family are widely used for weed control in wheat. “Iodosulfuron-methyl sodium + mesosulfuron methyl + mefenpyr-diethyl” is a new sulfonylurea herbicide being developed for postemergence application on weeds in wheat fields of Iran. Environmental and economic costs now require the optimisation of herbicide effects. This study was therefore conducted to evaluate S. arvensis competitive ability with wheat under sprayed conditions. 
Materials and Methods: A field experiment was carried out at Research Station of Ramin Agriculture and Natural Resources University of Khuzestan in 2015-16. The experiment consisted of four replicates of a split-plot factorial design, with two levels of wheat cultivar (Chamran and Verinac) as the main plot treatments. Other two factors including doses of herbicide (“Iodosulfuron-methyl sodium + mesosulfuron methyl + mefenpyr-diethyl”) in five levels of 0.2, 0.4, 0.6, 0.8 and 1 of recommended doses and densities of S. arvensis in four levels of 0, 12, 24 and 36 Plants m-2 were implemented in subplots. The competitive effect of the different densities of S. arvensis decreased by increasing doses of “Iodosulfuron-methyl sodium + mesosulfuron methyl + mefenpyr-diethyl”. Further, same interaction was observed in the standard dose–response curve. The combination of the rectangular hyperbolic model and the standard dose–response curve adequately described the complex effects of herbicide dose and weed competition on wheat biomass. Parametric estimates were used with the model to predict wheat biomass and estimate the doses of “Iodosulfuron-methyl sodium + mesosulfuron methyl + mefenpyr-diethyl” required to restrict wheat yield loss caused by S. arvensis to an acceptable level. 
Results and Discussion: The results showed that weed competitivity (β) at no-herbicide treatment was smaller in cv. Chamran than in cv. Verinac, indicating that Chamran was more competitive than Verinac. Herbicide performance, as a result of crop competitivity, was also greater in Chamran with smaller LD50 than Verinac. Using the estimated parameters and the combined model, weed biomass was predicted separately in cvs Chamran and Verinac. The predictions showed that S. arvensis grows better in cv. Verinac than in cv. Chamran. For instance, the model predicted that S. arvensis biomass at 36 S. arvensis plants m-2 with no herbicide treatment was equal to 189.19 g m-2 in cv. Verinac and 171.76 g m-2 in cv. Chamran at selected assessment date, whereas at the same weed density but using half of the recommended dose of “Iodosulfuron-methyl sodium + mesosulfuron methyl + mefenpyr-diethyl” herbicide, weed biomass was predicted to be approximately 82.74 g m-2 in cv. Verinac and 39.91 g m-2 in cv. Chamran. Using the final model and estimated parameters, crop biomass was predicted. Biomass production of wheat with the utilization only half of the recommended dose of herbicide at the highest assessed density of S. arvensis were predicted to be 569.31 g m-2 in cv. Verinac and 720.49 g m-2 in cv. Chamran. . It is speculated that improved crop competitivity may help to minimize herbicide use. Many studies have found that improvement in crop competitivity was achieved by selecting competitive cultivars. A main aim of the modelling approach to crop:weed competition is to predict crop yield production. Incorporating other factors, i.e. herbicide dose, considerably complicates the prediction process. However, the model presented here provides a valuable tool for predicting the effect of these factors. 
Conclusion: Results indicates that the standard dose-response model can be modified to a combined model by replacing parameter W0 (the weed biomass at no-herbicide treatment) with the rectangular hyperbolic model. The theoretical outputs of the combined model appear robust and indicate that there are opportunities for reduced herbicide use in the field. Increased crop competitivity by selecting competitive cultivars or increasing crop density may achieve better herbicide performance for crop yield.
-----------------------------------------
Iran is one of the limited numbers of ancient countries which is almost totally located on earthquake belt. Earthquakes have always been the most important natural hazard in Iran. Many villages, cities, civilizations and monuments have been partly or totally destroyed by past earthquakes in Iran. As a developing country, Iran is expanding its cities, industries, dams, power plants etc. The recent earthquake in Japan showed the effect of an earthquake and tsunami on the nuclear power plants. After the failure of Park field earthquake prediction (based on probabilistic approach), we should think carefully about the importance of deterministic approaches for earthquake hazard assessment in Iran. Therefore, Iran requires mapping its earthquake faults and investigating the activity of faults as first step. We should define the zones and find the codes based on the real data and parameters. Slip rate is one of the most important parameters for natural hazard risk assessment. For slip rate determination we should measure the slip of the fault and the time that has taken for this slip to occur. Therefore, we require a suitable dating method. Meanwhile, Iran is arid, semi arid zone.  These make luminescence as the most suitable method for dating past earthquakes, civilizations and environment. Luminescence dating can join studies related to the paleoclimatology, Paleoseismology and archeology of Iran. Optically stimulated luminescence (OSL) has been employed so far for dating the time of recent earthquakes and determination of the slip rate of some important earthquake faults in Iran (e.g., Fattahi et al., 2006; 2007; 2009; Fattahi and Walker, 2007). OSL directly dates the last time that quartz and feldspar in a sample has been exposed to light. Therefore, if we can find a sample that has been exposed to light during an event, we can date that event. The event can be an earthquake, Tsunami, volcanic eruption, sudden environment change and etc. Therefore, OSL samples should not be exposed to light during sampling and sample preparation. For this reason the suitability of the light of the sample preparation lab is vital. It is not possible to work in complete darkness, but dim red light with specific wave length can be employed for quartz preparation. Therefore, in the OSL sample preparation room in the Institute of Geophysics, normal red light which is available in the market, was installed and tested. For this purpose the spectrometer of red lamps with and without available filters were tested. The suitability of the dim light in the lab was also tested using Equivalent dose (De) estimate of well behaved quartz samples. Quartz grains were divided into different parts. One part was kept in complete darkness, the second was exposed to the lab light on the work plates and a third part was put in the fume cupboard. The Equivalent dose (which is the lab dose equal to the natural dose) of these three parts was estimated. Unfortunately, the Equivalent dose of grains that had been exposed to the lab light underestimated the natural dose. The result of all above mentioned experiments showed that the installed light was not suitable.
-----------------------------------------
<p style="text-align: justify;">Considering the 50% mortality rate of neonatal septicemia associated with neutropenia and increasing resistance to antibiotics, simultaneous antibiotic therapy strategies are becoming more important. However, few studies have been performed to evaluate effectiveness of RhG-CSF in the treatment of neutropenia in neonates. This randomized clinical trial was performed on 40 neutropenic neonates with septicemia who were hospitalized in Vali-e-Asr and Mirza Koochak Khan Hospitals (Tehran, Iran). The neonates were randomly divided into two equal groups RhG-CSF was administered as a subcutaneous single dose of 10μg/kg/s.c. to neonates in group A and as 10μg/kg/s.c./day once daily for 3 days to neonates in group B. CBC and differential count was checked 6, 24 and 48 hours after the last dose. There was no significant difference in mean birth weight, gender, age, and risk factors between two groups. Neutropenia was improved 48 hours after the last dose, whilst there was no significant statistical difference between two groups (P&gt;0.05). The final outcome including death, duration of hospitalization and duration of antibiotics therapy after RhG-CSF administration did not differ between two groups (P&gt;0.05). The results of this study showed that administration of a single dose of RhG-CSF (10μg/kg) was effective in treating neonatal septicemic neutropenia.</p>
-----------------------------------------
Introduction: The use of low energy isotopes such as i03Pd in brachytherapy for the treatment of cancers such as prostate, eye, head, neck, breast and cervix is increasing. In this regard, different models of Pd- 103 seeds have been designed and manufactured at the Agricultural, Medical and Industrial Research School (AMIRS) of Atomic Energy Organization of Iran. In this research, the dosimetric parameters of the second model of Pd-103 seed manufactured at AMIRS have been calculated and measured. Materials and Methods: The dosimetric parameters of the second Pd-103 seed manufactured at AMIRS were determined according to TG-43U1 protocol using Monte Carlo calculations (MCNP4C computer code) and measurements performed using TLD-GR200A dosimeters in a Perspex phantom. The parameters include dose rate constant, geometry function, radial dose function, anisotropy function, anisotropy factor and anisotropy constant.
Results: It was found that by using MCNP4C code the calculated dose rate constant in water and Perspex was 0.706±0.001 and 0.501±0.001 cGytf'U"1, respectively. Using the calculated geometry function, the radial dose function and the anisotropy function were determined by experimental and theoretical methods in water and Perspex phantom. Also, the calculated value of anisotropy constant in water was equal to 0.88.
Discussion and Conclusion: A discrepancy of less than 10% between the calculated and the measured values indicates a reasonable agreement between the simulation and the measurement method. Also, the dosimetric parameters of this seed have been compared to the dosimetric parameters of the first Pd-103 seed manufactured at AMIRS and some other seeds. The obtained results indicate that the seeds manufactured at AMIRS have acceptable dosimetric parameters suitable for brachytherapy applications.

-----------------------------------------
Introduction: Cannabis sativa is a plant that is Called Cannabis in Persian and has diversity all over the world. This plant grows in North region, Arak and Kashan in Iran. Chemical compounds of this plant are cannabidiol, cannabidiolic acid and tetra hydro cannabinol that cause the increase in duration of anesthesia via injection of anesthesia drugs. This effect shows the effectiveness of this plant extraction for sedation and smoothing. It is claimed that the usage of this drug for preanesthesia causes the reduction of anesthesia duration induction and increases anesthesia persistency. It seems that Cannabis and its compounds have effects on sleep through hypothalamus and posterior nucleus hemisphere. 
Methods: herbal extract of Cannabis Sativa (with doses of 150, 300, 450mg/kg, IP),  Diazepam (with dose of 1.2mg/kg, IP), and Di-methyl sulphoxide with the equal volume was injected intraperitoneally into two different groups of male wistar rats  30 minutes before assessing the relief sedative and preanaesthetic effects (induced sleep duration by ketamine 40mg/kg, ip) & anti-anxiety effects (using elevated plus maze). 
Results: The results showed a meaningful increase in the period of the sleep time that had been induced with Ketamine and also a meaningful increase was observed in the time spent at open arms in the treatment groups with high and low dose of extract. 
Conclusion: The results showed that the Cannabis Sativa extract with dose of 350mg/kg has sedative, preanaesthetic & anti-anxiety effects.

-----------------------------------------
Introduction: Midazolam has turned into a common drug for pediatric procedural sedation and analgesia. However, there is not much data regarding its proper dose and potential side effects in the Iranian children population. Therefore, the present study was done to compare 2 doses of IV midazolam in this regard. Methods: The present clinical trial was performed to compare 0.1 and 0.3 mg/kg doses of IV midazolam in induction of sedation for head trauma infant patients in need of brain computed tomography (CT) scan. Conscious infants under 2 years old, with stable hemodynamics were included. Onset and duration of action as well as probable side effects were compared between the two groups using SPSS version 22. Results: 110 infants with the mean age of 14.0 §5.9 months (range: 4–24) and mean weight of 9.7±2 kg (range: 5–15) were randomly allocated to one of the 2 study groups (54.6% female). Success rate in 0.1 and 0.3 mg /kg groups were 38.2% (21 patients)and 60% (33 patients), respectively (p=0.018). Overall, 56 (50.9%) patients did not reach proper sedation and were sedated receiving ketamine (22 patients) or another dose of midazolam (34 patients, mean additional dose needed was 2.1±1.1 mg). Conclusion: The results of the present study demonstrated the higher success rate and longer duration of action for 0.3 mg /kg midazolam compared to 0.1 mg /kg. The groups were equal regarding onset of action, effect on vital signs and probable side effects.
-----------------------------------------
Background: Nephrotoxicity is one of the major side-effects of cisplatin that has been seen in about 20% of treated patients. The aim of this study was to assess the effectiveness of a forced hydration protocol comprised of isotonic saline, potassium chloride (KCl) and magnesium sulfate (MgSO4) on prevention of cisplatin nephrotoxicity. Methods: This cross sectional prospective study was performed on cancer patients treated in Shafa Hospital, Ahvaz, Iran from November 2009 to March 2010. The patients were under at least 50 mg/m2 cisplatin. All patients received 1000 mL isotonic saline plus 20 mEq of KCl and 2 g of MgSO4 during 2-3 hours before, and 500 mL of the same solution over the two hours after administration of cisplatin. The prescribed dose of the solution was to the extent facilitating a urine flow of at least 100 mL/h for two hours prior to chemotherapy and 2 hours post-chemotherapy. Cisplatin nephrotoxicity was defined as an increase in the SCr equal or over 0.5 mg/dL during the 5 day follow-up post-chemotherapy. Results: A total of 76 patients (48 men and 28 women with mean (SD) age of 51.0 (17.6) years) were studied. Mean cumulative cisplatin dose was 86.7 (43.1) mg/m2. Hypokalemia and hypomagnesemia were not observed in any patient. Cisplatin nephrotoxicity (increase of creatinine) was developed in 5 patients (6.6%). The mean dose of cisplatin in patients with and without nephrotoxicity was 83 and 86.97 mg respectively which showed no significant difference between them (P = 0.8). Conclusion: The new protocol was able to decrease the rate of cisplatin nephrotoxicity from about 20% to 6.6%. Further case control studies with larger sample sizes are recommended to evaluate the effectiveness of this protocol.   How to cite this article: Beladi Mousavi SS, Hossainzadeh M, Khanzadeh A, Hayati F, Beladi Mousavi M, Zeraati AA, et al. Protective Effect of Forced Hydration with Isotonic Saline, Potassium Chloride and Magnesium Sulfate on Cisplatin Nephrotoxicity: An Initial Evaluation. Asia Pac J Med Toxicol 2013;2:136-9.
-----------------------------------------
Nowdays, in spite of all scientific advances in medicine and pharmacology and increasing production of chemical drugs, traditional medicine as well as the name of medicinal species is more important and remarkable. Origanum majorana in Iranian traditional medicine has been introduced as an anti-stress and tranquilizer agent. The present study was performed to compare the anti-stress effect of this herb on male rat with diazepam. Different groups of male wistar rats with the same age and weight, received Origanum majorana extract with doses of (100, 200, 400 mg/kg, ip) per kg of body weight, and 1.2 mg/kg diazepam per kg of body weight and dimethyl sulphoxide with an equal volume. The injection was intraperitoneall, 30 minutes before assessing the effects of sedation and antianxiety by using an elevated plus maze. Results showed a significant increase in induced sleep time with ketamine and time spent on the open arms of the patient in the group with doses of 200, 400 mg/kg Origanum majorana extract (p ≤ 0.01). In addition, it was found that Origanum majorana extract with a dose of 200 mg/kg per kg of body weight was significant compared to diazepam at a dose of 1.2 mg/kg and had sedation and antianxiolytic effects.
-----------------------------------------
Natural background radiation has been an interesting subject among scientific studies for many years. The effective radiation dose of human from natural sources is about 2.5 mSv/y but it is higher in some regions of the world. Ramsar in Mazandaran, Iran is one of the most important areas and it has the highest natural background radiation among whole residential areas of the world. Background radiation is an ionizing radiation in the environment that its source could be natural or man-made. Its natural sources are cosmic radiations, terrestrial radiation, internal radiation and radon and its man-made sources could be the nuclear power plants and the scatter radiations of atomic bomb tests. There are a lot of studies about the effects of natural background radiation on the biological systems and even humans. Most of these studies confirmed the harmless and even useful effects of the certain doses of natural background radiation. Also there are reports on the decrease, increase or even equality in risk of some cancers between low and high doses of radiation. Nevertheless extensive epidemiological studies are needed to confirm the effect of low dose radiation on carcinogenesis and other factors and even decrease or increase of the risk in different types of cancers is possible too.
KEY WORDS: Ramsar, Natural background radiations, Radioadaptive response, Radiation hormesis.

-----------------------------------------
<p>The purpose of this study was to assess exposure to hand-arm vibration in tiller users, Forty users of tiller in northeastern provinces of Iran were examined to measure hand-arm vibration parameters such as root mean square acceleration (RMS), total equivalent acceleration, Vibration Dose Value (VDV) and crest factor in three directions (x, y, and z) and various operating modes for comparing them with the relevant permitted standard levels. The hand-arm vibration measurement was done according to the standards ISO 5349-1 and ISO 5349-2. The obtained results indicated that the exposure level in three modes of rota-tilling, transportation and idling were equal to 16.95, 14.16 and 8.65 m/s2, respectively. In all measurement modes, the exposure to vibration in the direction x was greater than that of y and z. Moreover, the average crest factor was calculated less than six. The highest vibration dose values were measured in rota-tilling mode when the tiller was in 2nd  gear (60.76 m/s1.75) and 1st gear (56.83 m/s1.75). The results indicated that the permitted working time was only few seconds and there was a risk of musculoskeletal disorders. The present study emphasizes on the need for interventional and control managerial measures to eliminate or reduce hand-arm vibration transmitted to the tiller users' hands for avoiding major problems such as musculoskeletal disorders, discomfort and  premature fatigue. In this regard, further studies are required to identify vibration sources in different types of tillers.</p>
-----------------------------------------
Background: This study aimed to investigate the beneficial effects
of angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs) on markers of endothelial
function in patients with early stage of diabetic nephropathy (DN).
Methods: This cross-sectional study was conducted on 32
participants with IDDM from January 2010 until May 2011 in
Isfahan, Iran. The participants were candidate for receiving ARBs
or angiotensin?converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEIs) to decrease
microalbuminuria. The inclusion criteria were as follows: the age
of onset of insulin?dependent diabetes mellitus (IDDM)less than
15 years; normal glomerular filtration rate (GFR); normal blood
pressure; normal cardiovascular examination; negative urine culture,
receiving no medications except insulin. Microalbuminuria was
measured in two fasting urine samples with a sampling interval of
at least 1–2 months by ELISA method. Patients with two abnormal
results were included. Microalbumin to creatinin ratio equal to or
more than 30 mg/gm was considered abnormal. The fasting blood
samples to determine serum nitric oxide (NO) and vascular cell
adhesion molecule (VCAM) were obtained at the time 0 (before
starting the study), and after 2 months of receiving ARBmedication.
Valsartan tablet (Diovan, Novartis Company) with a dose of 1 mg/
kg/day up to 80 mg/day in a single dose was administered.
Results: Urine microalbumin to creatinin ratio after valsartan
consumption was lower than microalbumin level before the
medication, P  <  0.05. After valsartan consumption, serum VCAM?1
level reduced and NO level increased significantly, P  <  0.05.
Conclusion: Angiotensin receptor blockers may reduce VCAM?1
and microalbuminuria and may increase NO levels in early stages
of DN. Thus administration of ARBs might be considered even in
early stages of DN.
-----------------------------------------
Sulfonylurea herbicides mixtures with phenoxy herbicides can lead to effective control of broadleaved weeds. Pot experiments were conducted to study the effect of foramsulfuron and nicosulfuron mixtures with 2,4-D plus MCPA on redroot pigweed and common lambsquarters in 2010 at the greenhouse of Agricultural Faculty of Ferdowsi University of Mashhad, Iran. Experiments were performed as a completely randomized design with four replications. Treatments consist of several doses of sulfonylurea herbicides, which applied alone or in combination with 2,4-D + MCPA at different ratios at two- to four- true leaf stage. Also, to study the single-cross 704 corn (Zea mays L.) injury by applying herbicides alone or in mixture with different ratios, an experiment was conducted in 2011 at the farm of the Faculty of Agriculture, Ferdowsi University of Mashhad, Iran. Based on greenhouse results, effective dose of 2,4-D + MCPA did not decrease in the 87.5:12.5 mixture ratio of 2,4-D + MCPA with foramsulfuron or 75:25 and 50:50 mixture ratios of 2,4-D + MCPA with nicosulfuron on redroot pigweed. This may be caused by interference between herbicides for absorption and translocation. While, interference was observed at equal’s or higher mixture ratios of foramsulfuron in mixture with 2,4-D + MCPA on common lambsquarters. Weed species, metabolism rate of herbicide and cuticle structure can be important in higher doses’ application of herbicides in mixture and interference between two herbicides. Besides, weed growth stage, more entrance directions and transition of elaborated sap can be effective in translocation of herbicides in an effective dose to the site of action and less interference between herbicides. Sulfonylurea herbicides mixtures with 2,4-D + MCPA did not cause much injury on corn plants based on field study.
-----------------------------------------
Background: Considering the high incidence of low weight and short stature among Iranian children as well as the high prevalence of both mild and moderate types of zinc deficiency, this study was conducted among patients who were referred to the Pediatric Clinic at Massih Daneshvari Hospital during 1997 – 1999. The aim of this study was to determine the effect of zinc supplementation on the children’s height and weight percentiles. Methods: Age, sex, and height and weight percentiles before and after administration of zinc were determined and recorded. The zinc supplement used in this project was in the form of a zinc sulfate solution in 0.1% and 0.5% concentrations. The dose was the upper limit of a tolerable dose, which was given in three divided doses per day. The serum zinc level was measured with the atomic absorption spectrophotometry method. The effect of age, sex, and initial serum zinc level on the percentile changes were determined. Results: This study was conducted on 42 children with equal distribution of gender (21 male and 21 female patients). The mean age was 4.9 ± 4.1 years. Means of height and weight were 101.8 ± 23 cm and 16.5 ± 8.1 kg, respectively. The initial serum zinc level was 85.1 ± 31.6 μg/dL. The duration of zinc administration was 3.2 ± 2.6 months. The subjects were followed for a minimum of one month to a maximum of 10 months. The percentage of children with weight and height percentiles below the 50th percentile was reduced from 69% to 54% (P < 0.05) and from 50% to 33% (P < 0.01), respectively. Also, it was noted that children with low serum zinc levels demonstrated greater percentile changes. Conclusion: It was concluded that supplemental zinc increases height and weight percentiles.
-----------------------------------------
Background: Considering the high incidence of low weight and short stature among Iranian children as well as the high prevalence of both mild and moderate types of zinc deficiency, this study was conducted among patients who were referred to the Pediatric Clinic at Massih Daneshvari Hospital during 1997 - 1999. The aim of this study was to determine the effect of zinc supplementation on the children's height and weight percentiles.
Methods: Age, sex, and height and weight percentiles before and after administration of zinc were determined and recorded. The zinc supplement used in this project was in the form of a zinc sulfate solution in 0.1% and 0.5% concentrations. The dose was the upper limit of a tolerable dose, which was given in three divided doses per day.
The serum zinc level was measured with the atomic absorption spectrophotometry method. The effect of age, sex, and initial serum zinc level on the percentile changes were determined.
Results: This study was conducted on 42 children with equal distribution of gender (21 male and 21 female patients). The mean age was 4.9 ± 4.1 years. Means of height and weight were 101.8 ± 23 cm and 16.5 ± 8.1 kg, respectively. The initial serum zinc level was 85.1 ± 31.6 //g/dL. The duration of zinc administration was 3.2 ± 2.6 months. The subjects were followed for a minimum of one month to a maximum of 10 months.
The percentage of children with weight and height percentiles below the 50th percentile was reduced from 69% to 54% (P < 0.05) and from 50% to 33% (P < 0.01), respectively. Also, it was noted that children with low serum zinc levels demonstrated greater percentile changes.
Conclusion: It was concluded that supplemental zinc increases height and weight percentiles.

-----------------------------------------
Abstract
Introduction: The lumbar puncture is one of the most important diagnostic and therapeutic procedures within children which child’s non-cooperativeness and procedural sedation are regarded necessary to conduct it. This study aimed to compare efficacy and safety of melatonin and gabapentin in reducing anxiety and pain of lumbar puncture in children.
Methods: In a parallel single-blinded randomized clinical trial, sixty children aged 6 months -7 years, were evaluated in Pediatric Ward of Shahid Sadoughi Hospital, in Yazd (Iran) in 2012. The children were distributedrandomly into two groups (30 children in each group). In group one, they received 0.3 mg/kg/dose of melatonin and theother group received 15 mg/kg/dose of gabapentin. Primary endpoints were success rate in reducing anxiety (anxiety score of? four) and reducing pain when the needle was inserted to skin for lumbarpuncture (pain score of less than four). The clinicalside effects were investigated as well.
Results: Twenty two girls (36.7%) and 38 boys (63.3%) with mean age of 2.79 ± 1.92 years were evaluated. Anxiety reduction (achieving the anxiety score of ? four) was obtained in 43.3% in melatonin and  in 36.7% in gabapentin groups, respectively and both drugs were equally effective in anxiety reduction (p.value = 0.598).Pain reduction ( achieving the pain score of less than four) was obtained in 23.3% in melatonin and in 50% in gabapentin groups, respectively and thus, gabapentin wasproved to be more effective in pain reduction (p.value = 0.032).Mild side effects were observed in 10% of melatonin group and in 16.7% of gabapentin group. No statistically significant differences were seen from viewpoint of safety between the two drugs (p.value=0.448).
Conclusion: Melatonin and gabapentin were not effective drugs in anxiety reduction for lumbar puncture of children. However, gabapentin is a safe and effective drug in pain reduction in painful diagnostic therapeutic procedures.
Keywords: Anxiety; Children; Gabapentin; Lumbar puncture; Melatonin; Pain

-----------------------------------------
Considering contamination of drinking water to arsenic in some villages of Iran. In order to develop a simple method for household water treatment in rural areas, efficiency of modified activated alumina with iron compounds- a product of Alcan Company with trade name of AAFS-50- was studied Equilibrium batch experiments were carried out using shaker incubator and arsenic was analyzed with SDDC method. Effects of initial concentration of arsenic, adsorbent dose, oxidation state of arsenic, pH and oxidation with chlorine on adsorption were studied. Correlation coefficient of Freundlich and Laungmuier isotherms for As(V) and As(III) were 0.964 , 0.991 and 0.970, 0.978 respectively . These results show that adsorption of arsenic on modified activated alumina is compatible with both models specially Laungmuier models. Removal efficiency of As(V) at 0.5 ,1 and 2 hr increased with doubling the adsorbent dose from 44.8 to 72%, 69.6 to 90.8 and 92.4 to 98% ; respectively. Experiments using different concentrations of arsenic showed that adsorption of arsenic on activated alumina are a first order reaction that is, rate of reaction is dependent on intial; concentration of arsenic. Removal efficiency for concentration of 0.250 mg/L of arsenic, with increasing of reaction time from 15 min to 60 min, increased 1.54 times and reached from 61% to 94%. During 2hrs, removal of As(V) and As(III) were 96% and 16% respectively. Using 1.5 mg/L Chlorine as oxidant agent, removal of AS(III) was increased to 94%. In the case of pH effect, rate of adsorption increased for arsenite, with increasing of pH to 8 and decreased with more increasing, so that adsorption at pH 14 was equal to pH 2. For arsenate, the most adsorption was observed at pH between 6 to 8 . These results show that by using the studied activated alumina, there will not be need for adjustment of pH and the activated alumina used in this study could have application as a safe adsorbent for removal of arsenic from drinking water in simple household treatment systems in form of adsorptive column.
-----------------------------------------
Background: Pregnancy termination before the 20 week of gestational age is referred to as abortion. There are two common ways to treat early pregnancy failure: expectant management and surgical curettage. Some new methods have been suggested for the termanation of early pregnancy failure. The aim of the present study was to determine whether the medical management of vaginal misoprostol for early pregnancy failure is more effective than the expectant management.
Materials and Methods: In this study 80 pregnant women with early pregnancy failure were referred to Fatemieh hospital, Hamadan, Iran. Inclusion criteria for the study were: fetal pole more than 6 mm, accompanied by the absence of fetal heart in the transvaginal ultrasonography; fetal pole more than 10 mm in the absence of fetal heait rate in abdominal ultrasonograpgy; empty gestational sac, (16 mm diameter) and gestational age less than 12 weeks. Exclusion criteria were: ectopic pregnancy (EP), severe vaginal bleeding, dilated cervix and misoprostol medical contraindications. The patients were randomly divided into two equal groups: A and B. Patients in group A received 4 vaginal misoprostol tablets (200fig). Twenty four hours later, ultrasonography was repeated. In the case of the presence of pregnancy product, the first dose of misoprostol was readministered and again ultrasonography was performed. If abortion failed, surgical curettage was done. Patients received expectant management for 2 weeks in group B. Patients in group A were evaluated for adverse drug reactions. Using SPSS-13 statistical package, t-student and x2 were used for the comparison. Without the administration of any drug, patients in group B received expectational management for 2 weeks.
Results: There was no significant difference between two groups for both age and the gestational failure age (p>0.05). Abortion rate in misoprostol and expectational treatment groups were 87.5% and 20%, respectively. The percentage of vaginally delivered patients with the first and second dose of misoprostol was 60% (n=24) and 27.5% (n=ll), respectively. Among the 40 patients of expectational management, 24 patients (57.5%) received dilation and curettage while a patients (22.5%) undertook curttage. Misoprostol- induced side effects (e.g. fever>38c, nausea, vomitting, diarrhea and pain) were seen in some patients (12.5%) of the first group.

-----------------------------------------
Background: Over the past several years, the rapidly increasing use of mobile
phones has raised global concerns about the biological effects of exposure to radiofrequency
(RF) radiation. Numerous studies have shown that exposure to electromagnetic
fields (EMFs) can be associated with effects on the nervous, endocrine, immune,
cardiovascular, hematopoietic and ocular systems. In spite of genetic diversity, the
onset and progression of cancer can be controlled by epigenetic mechanisms such as
gene promoter methylation. There are extensive studies on the epigenetic changes of
the tumor suppressor genes as well as the identification of methylation biomarkers in
colorectal cancer. Some studies have revealed that genetic changes can be induced by
exposure to RF radiation. However, whether or not RF radiation is capable of inducing
epigenetic alteration has not been clarified yet. To date, no study has been conducted
on the effect of radiation on epigenetic alterations in colorectal cancer (CRC). Several
studies have also shown that methylation of estrogen receptor ? (ER?), MYOD,
MGMT, SFRP2 and P16 play an important role in CRC. It can be hypothesized that
RF exposure can be a reason for the high incidence of CRC in Iran. This study aimed
to investigate whether epigenetic pattern of ER? is susceptible to RF radiation and if
RF radiation can induce radioadaptive response as epigenetic changes after receiving
the challenge dose (?-ray).
Material and Method: 40 male Sprague-Dawley rats were divided into 4 equal
groups (Group I: exposure to RF radiation of a GSM cell phone for 4 hours and sacrificed
after 24 hours; Group II: RF exposure for 4 hours, exposure to Co-60 gamma
radiation (3 Gy) after 24 hours and sacrificed after 72 hrs; Group III: only 3Gy gamma
radiation; Group 4: control group). DNA from colon tissues was extracted to evaluate
the methylation status by methylation specific PCR.
Results: Our finding showed that exposure to GSM cell phone RF radiation was capable
of altering the pattern of ER? gene methylation compared to that of non-exposed
controls. Furthermore, no adaptive response phenomenon was induced in the pattern
of ER? gene methylation after exposure to the challenging dose of Co-60 ?-rays.
Conclusion: It can be concluded that exposure to RF radiation emitted by GSM
mobile phones can lead to epigenetic detrimental changes in ER? promoter methylation
pattern.
-----------------------------------------
&lt;strong &gt; Introduction &lt;/strong &gt; 
Maize (Zea mays L.) is a major crop in Iran and ranks third, behind wheat and rice. Grain yield in maize can be severely reduced by competition with weeds (Mosavi, 2001). A broad spectrum of grasses and broadleaved weeds infests maize fields. Amaranthus spp. (pigweed), Chenopodium album L. (common lambs quarters), Abutilon theophrasti Medik. (Velvetleaf), Cirsium arvense (L.) Scop. (Canada thistle), Convolvulus arvensis L. (field bindweed), Sorghum halepense (L.) Pers. (johnsongrass), Echinochloa crus-galli (L.) Beauv. (Barnyardgrass), Cyperus rotundus L. (purple nutsedge), Digitaria sanguinalis (L.) Scop. (Large crabgrass) and Setaria spp. (foxtail) are among the most common and problematic weeds in maize in Iran (Zand et al., 2009). Today, high-yielding agriculture heavily depends on herbicides, as they constitute a vital and integral component of weed management practices (Zand et al., 2008). Tank mixing two or more herbicides is a common practice that is increasingly used in most agronomic crops to control a wide spectrum of weeds, reduce production cost, and/or prevent the development of herbicide-resistant weeds (Zand et al., 2008). Herbicides may interact, before or after entering the plants, and the outcome of the interaction can be synergistic, additive, or antagonistic. It would be ideal to select herbicide combinations that have synergistic effects on weeds and/or antagonistic effects on crops. Additives, compounds that to facilitate the mixing application or influence herbicide add to herbicide formulation or tank sprayer, in other words additives can increase the effects of herbicides to reduce their consumption (Streibig et al., 1998). Foramsulfuron and nicosulfuron are among the newly released dual purpose sulfonylurea herbicides. The use of these herbicides offers the opportunity for a new mode of action for weed management in maize. These herbicides act through inhibition of acetolactate synthase, the first enzyme in the pathway in the biosynthesis of branched-chain amino acids, valine, leucine and isoleucine in chloroplasts. They first affect meristemic tissues where growth ceases soon after treatment. Chlorosis and the necrosis of these tissues soon follow, with dieback to the mature parts of the plant taking a further 3–4 week. These herbicides have been reported to be very effective on grasses, broadleaved weeds, and rhizomatous perennial temperate weeds in maize. Another priority of these herbicides over those currently used on maize is that they act at very low doses. This will reduce the environmental safety concerns lie back behind application of herbicides (Nurse et al., 2007; Prostko et al., 2006).

 &lt;strong &gt; Materials and Methods &lt;/strong &gt; 
In order to evaluate the effect of foramsulfuron and nicosulfuron combination without and with ammonium sulfate as an adjuvant on lamb’s-quarters (Chenopodium album L.) control in maize, a study was conducted in three separate experiments, in Ferdowsi University of Mashhad during 2011-2012. For this purpose, 4 plants of Lamb &apos;s-quarters (Chenopodium album L.) and 2 maize crops was planted in separate pots and were sprayed in 4-leaf stage. The first experiment was conducted separately for each of weeds lamb’s quarters to determine the dose for foramsulfuron and nicosulfuron in greenhouse conditions, based on the dose-response experiments. The second experiment conducted to evaluate the effect of different combination ratio of two herbicides (75% foramsulfuron+ 25% nicosulfuron, 50% foramsulfuron+ 50% nicosulfuron, 25% foramsulfuron+ 75% nicosulfuron) based on the results of the first experiment. The third experiment included the second experiment treatments plus ammonium sulfate as adjuvant. 

 &lt;strong &gt; Results and Discussion &lt;/strong &gt; 
Results showed that both herbicides without ammonium sulfate and at high doses lamb’s-quarters control. Combination ratio with equal doses of two herbicides (50% foramsulfuron +50% nicosulfuron) increased lamb’s-quarters damage more than other ratios. In other words, the combination of these two herbicides had synergistic effects on lamb’s-quarters control. Also combination of them with ammonium sulfate had synergistic effects on lamb’s-quarters control, so that in this experiment among different mixing ratios of the two herbicide, mixing ratio of 50% foramsulfuron +50% nicosulfuron dry matter reduce lamb’s-quarters compared to other ratios increased mixing. It should be mentioned that mixing these two herbicides with and without the additive ammonium sulfate had no adversely affect maize crop. 

 &lt;strong &gt; Conclusions &lt;/strong &gt; 
It can be concluded that the combination of herbicides foramsulfuron and nicosulfuron with and without additive ammonium sulfate not only has antagonism effect in the mix, but also synergism effects are observed in the mixture of two herbicides with better efficiencies additive combination of two herbicide.
-----------------------------------------
    Sensitivity concerning cultural, political, and socioeconomic inequality has led to the measuring precision effort. The main purpose of this paper is to apply micro-data income (expenditure) distribution to estimate the more precision the economic inequality, applying nonparametric and parametric methods by using grouped and ungrouped data regarding different provinces in Iran during the period of 2000-2006 in order to choose the best method. 
   The results indicated that non-parametric method using grouped data (assuming uniform distribution among each group) ignores within group inequality and underestimate the Gini coefficient. Unlike this, the parametric method using the population income distribution model dose not ignore the within group inequality.  So, if the fit of the model verifies as good, the non-parametric method is preferable especially when open-ended group data are concerned.   

-----------------------------------------
Background- Given the importance of the effect of muscle relaxants on extubation time in coronary artery bypass grafting patients, we sought to assess the difference in “time to extubation” and “intensive care unit length of stay” between the primary bolus doses of pancuronium and cisatracurium, without using maintenance doses during the operation. Methods- This double-blind clinical trial divided 110 patients into two equal groups, receiving either cisatracurium or pancuronium. The patients’ surgical and cardiopulmonary bypass variables were evaluated, and extubation time and ICU length of stay were compared between the two groups. Results- There was no difference between the two groups regarding the depth of anesthesia, train-of-four (TOF) scores at the beginning of anesthesia, and the surgical and cardiopulmonary bypass variables. However, the cisatracurium patients were extubated earlier and had shorter ICU length of stay than the pancuronium patients. Conclusion- An appropriate depth of anesthesia facilitates the administration of the induction dose of cisatracurium, which confers earlier extubation and shorter ICU length of stay in comparison to pancuronium (Iranian Heart Journal 2010; 11 (3):19-23).
-----------------------------------------
Viral Hepatitis is still a major hygienic problem in both developing and developed countries . The Hepatitis B vaccine is important for fighting against the hepatitis B virus and preventing its chronicity.The purpose of this study was to inspect the effectivity of immunity of hepatitis B vaccine seven years after the Iranian Public Vaccination Program. The search was a descriptional and a cross sectional one . The surveyed society included Yazd primary school 8 year old students who had been vaccinated 2 or 3 times according to the public vaccination program. 200 samples with an equal number of boys & girls were included in the study. 69% of the society was positive 7 years after injection ( HbsAb>10mlu/ml). Seventy one percent boys and 67% girls were positive HbsAb . The children with high BMI had low positive HbsAb. The was no clear difference between the group with birth weight<2500 gr and the group with birth weight > 2500 gr regarding positive HbsAb. Considering the results of the above study, with reference to the immunity permanence 7 years after vaccination (69%), which confirms with similar researches of other countries- a booster dose is not recommended.
-----------------------------------------
<div><p>Intraventricularhemorrhage (IVH) is one of thecommon morbidities among preterm neonates. In thepresentstudy, we set out to evaluate the efficacy of two prophylactic modalities (ibuprofen and indomethacin prophylaxis) for prevention of IVH in our local setting. A prospective study was carried out in Akbar-Abadi Hospital, Tehran-Iran (2013-2014). Ninety-six preterm neonates who cared in closed incubator entered the study<strong>.</strong> Neonates randomly assigned into 3 groups; control, oral indomethacin (0.2 mg/kg indomethacin daily for 3 days) and oral ibuprofen (10,5,5 mg/kg ibuprofen every 24 hours during 3) administration. For all subjects brain sonography examination was performed in 3rd day, first, 2nd week of life and when infants reached to 36 and 42 weeks of postmenstrual age. The IVH prevalence and the effectiveness of the drugs among groups were statistically assessed. Of all 93 subjects; 14 cases had IVH (15.1%). IVH was significantly more frequent in the controls than in other groups (<em>P</em>=0.049). Prophylactic treatment could significantly decrease the incidence of grade 3 or 4 IVH in experimental groups (<em>P</em>=0.008). There were no significant differences between the three experimental groups with respect to theincidence of GI bleeding, Oliguria, renal dysfunction or NEC (<em>P</em>&gt;0.05). This study demonstrates that low-dose prophylactic indomethacin and ibuprofen are equally associated with a reduction of IVH without any significant side effects like renal dysfunction, GI bleeding or NEC.</p></div>
-----------------------------------------
Background: Satureja Khuzestanica is an endemic plant of Iran widely distributed in the southern part of the country. This plant is famous for its medical applications as an analgesic and antiseptic in folk medicine.
Objective: To investigate the effect of oral administration of aqueous extract of Satureja Khuzestanica on hemostasis and body weight in vivo.
Methods: This research was an experimental study carried out in Lorestan Medicinal Herbs Research Center, Lorestan University of Medical Sciences, Khoram-abad, Iran. Thirty six rats were randomly divided into 3 groups. An equivalent of 50 mg of aqueous extract of Satureja Khuzestanicalkg was orally administered. For two weeks the rats in group I and 2 received an equal amount of extract once and three times a day, respectively. Control group received only pure water. Animals' weights were measured every day. Following two weeks, prothrombin time (PT), activated partial thromboplastin time (APTT) were determined. Data were analyzed using One-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) followed by the Tukey multiple comparison tests.
Findings: As compared to control, the administration of aqueous extract of Satureja Khuzestanica as 3 separate dose/day resulted in a significant prolongation of APTT by 20.7% (p<0.001), PT by 15.7% (p<0.05) and a reduction of body weight by % 9.24 (p<0.001) after 2 weeks.
Conclusion: Regarding our data, it seems that the aqueous extract of Satureja Khuzestanica induced some changes in coagulation activity shown by increased values for APTT and PT. Loss of body weight in rats was also observed when the extract administered three times a clay.
-----------------------------------------
Background- A patent ductus arteriosus (PDA), resulting in hemodynamically-significant left to right shunting of blood, increases complications and mortality in premature infants. PDA in premature infants is conventionally treated by intravenous indomethacin. Intravenous ibuprofen was recently shown to be as effective, but to have adverse reactions in premature infants. If equally effective, then oral ibuprofen for PDA closure would have several important advantages over the intravenous route. This study was designed to determine whether oral ibuprofen treatment is efficacious and safe in the closure of a hemodynamicallysignificant PDA in premature infants. Methods- Ten premature infants with symptomatic PDA were studied prospectively. The average gestational age and weight of them were 29.5 weeks and 1320 g, respectively. The neonates were diagnosed to have symptomatic PDA based on the clinical criteria, chest radiography and echocardiography. All the babies had CBC, PT, BUN, serum electrolytes and U/A done before and after therapy. They received oral ibuprofen for three consecutive daily doses. All the neonates underwent repeat echocardiography 24 h after three doses of ibuprofen. Results- Ductus closure was achieved in all the newborns except for one (90%). There were no significant side effects like oliguria or bleeding tendencies. There was no reopening of the ductus after the closure had been achieved. Conclusion- Ibuprofen, unlike indomethacin, dose not impair cerebral autoregulation and has much fewer adverse effects on the renal and mesenteric circulation. Oral ibuprofen suspension may be an effective and safe alternative for PDA closure in premature infants with PDA. However, larger comparative studies are warranted (Iranian Heart Journal 2006; 7 (2):15-18).
-----------------------------------------
The objective of this experiment was to determine the effect of long-term low-dose administration of
lead (Pb) on thyroid function in sheep. In this experiment 10 healthy Iranian male sheep, aged about oneyear-
old were randomly allocated into two equal groups of control (n = 5) and experiment (n = 5). Both
groups were kept under the same conditions of food and environment. The treatment group received lead
acetate (5 mg/kg/day) orally for 8 weeks. Blood sampling of two groups was done on the same days, on days
0 (before receiving lead acetate in treatment group), 14, 28, 42, 56 and 70 after lead administration, every
morning (8 to 9 a.m.). The function of the thyroid was evaluated by measuring the levels of serum thyroid
hormones T3, T4, FT3, FT4 and TSH. The hepatic function in both groups was evaluated by measuring
hepatic enzyme activities including alanin amino transferase (ALT), aspartate aminotreansferase (AST), gamma glutamyl transferase (GGT), and total bilirubin (TBIL). Serum levels of T3 (on days 14, 56 and 70) T4 (on
days 14, 28, 42, 56 and 70), FT3 (on days 56 and 70), FT4 (on days 42, 56 and 70) and TSH (on days 14, 28,
42, 56 and 70) significantly decreased in lead-treated sheep when compared to the control group (P<0.05).
Serum enzyme activities of ALT (on days 28 and 42), AST (on days 28, 42, 56 and 70) and TBIL (on days
28 and 70) in Pb treated sheep increased significantly in comparison with the control group (P<0.05). Our
findings suggest that Pb exposed sheep can be at risk of low thyroid function
-----------------------------------------
Background: About 8 percent of Iranian adult population are illicit drug abusers. Affected persons grow more each day. Ominous consequences such as divorce, prostitution, murder and other crimes and infectious diseases such as AIDS and hepatitis take place following drug abuse, as well as a loss equall to 29% of national income for our country. Traditional treatment methods wasted too much time and cost. professional inpatient clinics are not adequate for admission of all care seekers. Rapid detoxification methods are supposed to be better alternatives. 
Materials and Methods: 140 male drug abusers in two matched groups were assessed from March to September, 2005. They used heroin or opium. Both groups were scheduled for detoxification and were closely observed for 3 months thereafter. First group received Clonidine, Benzodiazepine and Naltrexone besides symptom relieving modalities in first 4 days of treatment. Naltrexone was continued in maintenance dose for one month. Second group received Methadone for one month. 
Results: Clients' age was between 18 to 73 years, with mean age 34 years old. Their intelligence quotients were above the lower limit of normal range. There was no significant difference according to these parameters between two groups. Success rate in rapid detoxification group was 55 % and in Methadone group was 50 %. Relapse in rapid detoxification method occurred less frequent and slower (45 % vs. 50%). In Naltrexone group, better success rate was due to less duration of drug abuse and heroin dependency. In Methadone group, therapy had better results in patients with longer drug abuse history and opium addiction. There was no significant difference between success rate and either drug kind or job, marital status or education level. The most serious adverse effect in both groups was hypotension (10% in Naltrexone and 5 % in Methadone groups). 
Conclusion: Rapid detoxification with Naltrexone seems to be a convenient therapeutic option in less time and more volunteer size according to its high success rate and less duration and negligible adverse effects. 

-----------------------------------------
Background: About 8 percent of Iranian adult population are illicit drug abusers. Affected
persons grow more each day. Ominous consequences such as divorce, prostitution, murder and
other crimes and infectious diseases such as AIDS and hepatitis take place following drug abuse, as
well as a loss equall to 29% of national income for our country. Traditional treatment methods
wasted too much time and cost. professional inpatient clinics arc not adequate for admission of all
care seekers. Rapid detoxification methods are supposed to be better alternatives.
Materials and Methods: 140 male drug abusers in two matched groups were assessed from
March to September, 2005. They used heroin or opium. Both groups were scheduled for
detoxification and were closely observed for 3 months thereafter. First group received Clonidine,
Bcnzodiuzepinc and Naltrexone besides symptom relieving modalities in first 4 days of treatment.
Naltrexone was continued in maintenance dose for one month. Second group received Mcthadone
for one month.
Results: Clients' age was between 18 to 73 years, with mean age 34 years old. Their intelligence
quotients were above the lower limit ofnonnal range. There was no significant difference according
to these parameters between two groups. Success rate in rapid detoxification group was 55 0/r, and in
Methadone group was 50 '%. Relapse in rapid detoxification method occurred less frequent and
slower (45 % vs. 50%). In Naltrexone group, better success rate was due to less duration of drug
abuse and heroin dependency. In Methadone group, therapy had better results in patients with
longer drug abuse history and opium addiction. There was no significant difference between success
rate and either drug kind or job, marital status or education level. The most serious adverse effect in
both groups was hypotension (10% in Naltrexone and 5 % in Methadone groups).Conclusion: Rapid detoxification with Naltrcxonc seems to be a convenient therapeutic option in
less time and more volunteer size according to its high success rate and less duration and negligible
adverse effects.

-----------------------------------------
Background: Most pregnant women who deliver in obstetrics units require pharmacological or non-pharmacological pain relievers that could provide potent analgesic effects with least maternal and neonatal adverse effects.
Objectives: The aim of this investigation was to compare the efficacy and adverse maternal and neonatal effects of Remifentanil given by bolus patient-controlled analgesia (PCA) versus continuous intravenous (IV) infusion for labor analgesia.
Patients and Methods: This randomized, single-blind clinical trial was conducted on 82 nulliparous parturient women in the active phase of labor, admitted to Ali Ebn-e Abitaleb Hospital, Zahedan, Iran from January 2010 to March 2013. The participants were randomly assigned into two equal groups of 41. In the infusion group, patients received incremental Remifentanil IV infusion from 0.025 to 0.1 ?g/kg/min. In the bolus group, participants received incremental PCA bolus Remifentanil from 0.25 to 0.4 ?g/kg with a lock-out time of four minutes. Average Visual Analog Scale (AVAS) pain scores in stages 1 and 2, labor duration, adverse effects, neonatal outcomes, total amount of administered Remifentanil and maternal satisfaction were assessed.
Results: In both methods, the pain scores were significantly reduced after Remifentanil administration in both stages of labor (P  <  0.001). There were no statistically significant differences in the pain intensity reduction between the groups (P = 0.49, P = 0.36, in the stages I and II of labor, respectively). There were no statistically remarkable differences between the two groups for labor duration (P = 0.4), neonatal outcomes (P = 0.9) and maternal satisfaction (P = 0.8). The total amount of administered Remifentanil was significantly lower in infusion group compared to bolus group (P = 0.001).
Conclusions: Remifentanil in both infusion and bolus methods could decrease labor pain in both stages without serious maternal or neonatal adverse effects and without increasing the duration of labor. The average dose of Remifentanil needed to reduce pain was significantly lower in the infusion method compared to the bolus method.
-----------------------------------------
Objective: Olive oil and olive leaf extract are used for treatment of skin diseases and wounds in Iran. The main component of olive leaf extract is Oleuropein. This research is focused on the effects of Oleuropein on skin wound healing in aged male Balb/c mice.
Materials and Methods: In this experimental study, Oleuropein was provided by Razi Herbal Medicine Institute, Lorestan, Iran. Twenty four male Balb/c mice, 16 months of age, were divided equally into control and experimental groups. Under ether anesthesia, the hairs on the back of neck of all groups were shaved and a 1 cm long full-thickness incision was made. The incision was then left un-sutured. The experimental group received intradermal injections with a daily single dose of 50 mg/kg Oleuropein for a total period of 7 days. The control group received only distilled water. On days 3 and 7 after making the incision and injections, mice were sacrificed, and the skin around incision area was dissected and stained by hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) and Van Gieson’s methods for tissue analysis. In addition, western blot analysis was carried out to evaluate the level of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) protein expression. The statistical analysis was performed using SPSS (SPSS Inc., Chicago, USA). The t test was applied to assess the significance of changes between control and experimental groups.
Results: Oleuropein not only reduced cell infiltration in the wound site on days 3 and 7 post incision, but also a significant increase in collagen fiber deposition and more advanced re- epithelialization were observed (p < 0.05) in the experimental group as compared to the control group. The difference of hair follicles was not significant between the two groups at the same period of time. Furthermore, western blot analysis showed an increased in VEGF protein level from samples collected on days 3 and 7 post-incision of experimental group as compared to the control group (p < 0.05).
Conclusion: These results suggest that Oleuropein accelerates skin wound healing in aged male Balb/c mice. These findings can be useful for clinical application of Oleuropein in expediting wound healing after surgery.
-----------------------------------------
The hippocampus is a tiny nub in the mammalian brain that is involved in forming, organizing, and storing memories. Global cerebral ischemia (GCI) and reperfusion induced apoptosis lead to cell injury and death. FK-506 is a strong immunosuppressant drug that has neuroprotective effects on the hypoxic-ischemic effects of brain damage. BAD and Bcl-xL are pro-apoptotic and anti-apoptotic genes, respectively. These genes belong to The B-cell lymphoma-2 (Bcl-2) family. In this study, we assessed the neurotrophic properties of FK-506 on expression of the BAD and Bcl-xL genes in the hippocampus following global ischemia and reperfusion. In the present experimental study, adult male Wistar rats were obtained and housed under standard conditions in the Tehran University of Medical Science in Iran. Rats were equally distributed in groups of three among the following groups: normal control, treated-1 (ischemia/reperfusion), and treated-2 (ischemia/reperfusion followed by FK-506). Global ischemia was induced for animals in the treated-1 and treated-2 groups. In treated-2, two doses of FK-506 were injected: one dose as an IV injection immediately after reperfusion and another as an intra-peritoneal (IP) injection after 48 hours. Then, the hippocampus tissue was removed after anaesthetizing the rats. RNA was isolated, cDNA was synthesized, and real-time PCR was performed. Finally, the obtained data were analyzed statistically (P value ? 0.05). The quantitative results of real-time PCR show that the mRNA expression ratio of Bcl-xL down-regulated was 0.75 ± 0.06 in the ischemia/reperfusion group versus 1.57 ± 0.09 in the control group (P value &lt; 0.001), whereas Bcl-xL gene expression was greater in the ischemia/reperfusion +FK506 group (1.93 ± 0.15) than in the ischemia/reperfusion group. Moreover, the mRNA expression ratio of BAD up-regulated in the ischemia/reperfusion + FK506 group was 3.65 ± 0.49 compared to Normal control (1.39 ± 0.09) and Ischemia/reperfusion + FK506 was 1.09 ± 0.20 (P value &lt; 0.001). The analysis of the pro-apoptotic gene to anti-apoptotic gene expression ratio (BAD /Bcl-xL) confirmed that expression of the pro-apoptotic gene significantly decreased (P value ? 0.001) under the ischemia/reperfusion condition. In contrast, the expression of the anti-apoptotic gene increased after administration of FK-506 (P value ? 0.001)
-----------------------------------------
Introduction: Portolaca oleracea is a plant, which is used as vegetable in some parts of Iran and also is a well-known herbal medicine. Several effects such as smooth and skeletal muscle relaxant effect, cardiac muscle relaxant effect, analgesic and anti-inflammatory effect have been reported for this plant. This study was performed to investigate the analgesic and antiinflammatory effects of the portolaca oleracea.
Materials and Methods: Aerial parts of plant (stem and leaves) were collected and dried in shadow. The dried parts then were powdered and ethanolic and aqueous extracts were prepared by suxhelet. Analgesic effects were assessed by hot plate and tail flick tests at 0, 30, 60 and 90 minutes after treatment of animals. For each test sixty white mice with about 25- 30 g body weight were randomly divided into six groups. Groups A and B were received 200 and 400 mg/kg of aqueous extract respectively, groups B and C received 200 and 400 mg/kg of ethanolic extract respectively and groups E and F were received normal saline (as negative control) and morphine 9 mg/kg (as positive control). To determine anti-inflammatory effect, 32 Wistar -Albino rats with 250- 300 g B.W were divided into 4 groups; experimental groups received 400 mg/kg B.W of aqueous and / or ethanolic extracts, and control groups were received 10 mg/kg B.W diclofenac sodium (positive control) or saline (negative control) one hour prior to caraggeenan injection to induce foot paw edema. Foot volume to a strict drawn line on leg when immersed in a 25 ml cylinder was measured before caraggeenan injection and 1& 3 hours after injection; the increase in swollen paw were determined for each rat. The results were determined and compared by an analysis of variances (ANOVA) for all groups and changes were compared by Tukey-Kramer test. The difference was considered to be significant when the P value was less than 0.05.
Results: Both aqueous and ethanolic extracts at 400 mg/kg B.W showed analgesic effects, which was significant as compared to that of negative control (P<0.001 for both tests). The maximum effect was determined at 60 minutes after injection. The analgesic effects of both extracts at 60 minutes were equal to 60% of morphine (hot plat). The differences between aqueous and ethanolic extracts were not significant. Both aqueous and athanolac extracts significantly decreased paw edema at 1 (P<0.01) and 3 (P<0.001) hours after caraggeenan injection in treated rats.
Conclusion: The results of this study demonstrated that portolaca oleracea at the dose of 400 mg/kg have a considerable analgesic and anti-inflammatory effects and thus may be used as oral or topical anti-inflammatory and analgesic products.
-----------------------------------------
By regarding the rest of pictorial and written documents of Sassanid and Sogdian art – Sogdiana was one of the states under the supervision of Sassanid emperors at many different period - this research is going tosurvey the effects of Sassanid art on the Sogdian mural paintings; the statistic category of this research is 3 sample of Sassanid stone relief and Mural painting as well as 6 sample of Sogdian mural painting. The Methodology is description and analyses of paintings. The goal of this essay is the reconsideration of Sassanid artistic effects on the Sogdian mural paintings,GivenThe geographical location of the Sassanid Empire, Sogdiana was one of the important neighboring countries of Iran, and the cultural links between these two countries had many mutual effects on their cultures, as we can find its true samples on Sogdian paintings. the influence of Sassanid paintings on the use of color, form and decorative elements of clothing, elegant women's draw & ... can be seen in the Sogdian painting;Despite the strong influence of Sassanid art on sogdian paintings, there are many differences between them,for instance the Sassanid artpreferred the stylizations and symbolism on realistic representation, in the other hand Sogdians Sometimes painted their works realistically with moredetails.However, we usually find Sassanid illustrations on Reliefs, but the Sogdian artists prefer mural paintings;The Royal Commission Representation is dominated in Sassanid art, On the contrary,Sogdian painting dose not Focus onkings as much as Sassanid art, in fact folklores and every day themes as parties, hobbies and sports , religious and epics are the main subjects of their paintings.We can find some Sassanid art whichinfluences on Sogdian paintings such as: rhythmic drawing of women, details of customs with plant and animal designs, the crowns of kings, In addition we face withmasks, bells and using Yellow, Red Maroon, sky blue and black colors.in general the formal properties of Sassanid images in the case of visual space, using flat, sharp and diversified colors,omission of perspective, avoiding shadow of light, the absence of thespecified source of light, equal place and importance of human and nature, Simplified forms and ignoring the sequence of time and dimensions of Places as well as approach to linear mode,can be seen inSogdianpaintings.another influentialaspects on the Sogdian mural painting is the immigration of Manichianmen to the central Asia, which transmits the other aspects of Sassanid art traditions to sogdiana;But,despite all, the results of the studies of Sassanid and Sogdian paintings indicate that Sassanid empire as a grate regional power always had stronginfluenceson Sogdian paintings, thus in the case of paintings we see more of the influence of Sassanid art traditions on the Sogdian paintings, but Sogdian paintings have their own originality so it cannot be classified as a Sassanid art branches or any other countries at their neighbors. In fact, both Sassanid and Sogdiana keep their own visual values in their arts.
-----------------------------------------
Extended Abstract:

Introduction: With the expansion of products and the development of food industry, also diversity of residuals increased So that many of the farmers unknown and for optimal use of it new information is needed. In 2000 and 2003, global production of citrus was 4.69 million tons per year. Iran has produced 3,484,172 tons, citrus fruits 3.5 percent of the citrus world &apos;s production and is known as the world &apos;s sixth-largest citrus producing country (Bampidis and Robinson, 2006). Citrus pulp in animal feeding used rumen microflora and improves dietary fiber digestion, rumen fermentation and microbial protein synthesis (Bampidis and Robinson, 2006).

Introduction Today, the citrus industry supplies the large quantities of diversed by-products such as whole citrus fruits, fresh or dried citrus pulp, citrus molasses, and silage as feed for animals. In 2000-2003, global production of citrus was 4.69 MT. Iran has produced 3.5 MT citrus fruits (3.5 % of the world &apos;s production) and is known as the world &apos;s sixth-largest citrus producing country. Citrus by-product feedstuff can be used as a high energy feed in ruminant rations to support rumen microflora, growth and lactation, with fewer negative effects on rumen fermentation than starch rich feeds (Leiva et al., 2000), andimproves dietary fiber digestion, rumen fermentation and microbial protein synthesis. To increase the usefulness of citrus pulp it can be preserved by drying, but direct drying is difficult because of the slimy consistency of the waste. Citrus pulp may be ensiled alone or in combination with high dry matter cereal crop residues, such as wheat straw to control effluent outputs from silages. Application of wheat straw in silage as an absorbent additive decreases ensiling losses but also decreases quality of silage (. However, using wheat straw and urea in silage citrus pulp silage and their effects on feedlotting lambs has not evaluated. Therefore, this experiment conducted to test the effect of citrus pulp silage on fattening performance of Zel male lambs.
Materials and Methods Sixteen Zel male lambs (BW=25±0.5kg) in 4 treatments with 4 replications over 90 days fed with 4 experimental diets including: 1) basal diet with 14.61% of the citrus pulp silage withowt additives, 2) basal diet with 24.46% of the citrus pulp silage with 40% wheat straw, 3) basal diet with 24.22% of the citrus pulp silage with 38.5% wheat straw and 1.5% urea, and 4) basal diet with 23.76% of the citrus pulp silage with 37% wheat straw and 3% urea when forage to concentrate ratio was 40: 60%. Rations formulated using SRNS® (version 1.9.4208), mixed and fed twice daily at 700 and 1900. The daily gain, feed intake, feed conversion ratios were determined each 15d. Particle size distribution of ration was determined with dry sieving. Digestive kinetics were measured using Cr-mordanted NDF wheat straw a single dose. At 53 th d, rumination and chewing activity animal was measured visually with five-minute intervals over 24 h for all animals.
Results and Discussion There were no difference in daily gain, dry matter intake and feed conversion ratio among treatments. Other resultsshowed that the intake of nutrients was not changed with orange pulp silage with/without additives except the fiber fractions (NDF and ADF) those were consistent with the results. Treatment 1 had highest apparent digestibility of dry matter and nutrients than other experimental treatments. Wheat straw and urea decreased digestibility in comparasion to treatment control. Increase dry matter digestibility with orange pulp has three reasons including 1) high pectin content, 2) highly digestible NDF, and increased surface area of the particle. Wheat straw, urea, and physical effective fiber increased chewing and rumination times in comparasion to control and decreased the resting time. Another researcherreported consuming diets with equal NDF bur smaller particle size of corn silage in the ration, increased dry matter intake, but decreased rumen fluid pH and chewing activity. Treatment 1 had the highest ruminal particulate passage rate and lowest ruminal mean retention time, but treatment 4 had the lowest ruminal particulate passage rate and the highest ruminal mean retention time. In treatment 1, increased digestibility and passage rate improved feed intake. Addition of urea in treatments 3 and 4 increased ruminal pH and NH3-N. In treatment 1, lower pH of fresh orange pulp silage and decreased rumination and chewing activity lead to lower rumen pH.
Conclusion the results showed that ensiling of citrus pulp with wheat straw and urea as a silage additive, can be made high quality silage; but for improve the quality of silage through increasing urea, availability of soluble carbohydrate source is required. So that 15% citrus pulp in diet improvements digestibility of nutrients, daily weight gain, feed conversion ratio and fattening lambs performance without negative effect. 


Results and Discussion: There were no significant difference in daily weight gain, dry matter intake and feed conversion ratio among treatments. Gado et al (2011) showed that the intake of nutrients was not changed with orange pulp silage without additives or orange pulp silage treated with the enzyme lambs except the fiber fractions (i.e., NDF and ADF) were consistent with the results. Treatment 1 had highest apparent digestibility of nutrients than other experimental treatments therefore, additives significantly decreased digestibility in comparasion to treatment control. Increase dry matter digestibility with orange pulp is two reasons: (1) a large amount of pectin as a major component of orange pulp. 2- highly digestible NDF (Aregheore, 2000). Citrus pulp pectin and increase the surface area of the particle size reduction in treatment 1 increased digestibility (Mertens, 1997). Wheat straw, urea, increasing the diet particles size and physical effective fiber, increased chewing and rumination times in comparasion to treatment control and decreased the resting time. Krause and Combs (2003) reported consuming diets with equal cell wall, with reduce the particle size of corn silage in the ration, dry matter intake increased, rumen fluid pH and chewing activity decreased. Treatment 1 had the highest ruminall particulate passage rate and lowest ruminal mean retention time, but treatment 4 had the lowest ruminall particulate passage rate and the highest ruminal mean retention time. Particle size reduction and fresh citrus pulp in the low quality diet by increasing the digestibility and passage rate improve voluntary feed intake, in treatment 1 This research was observed (Teimouri et al., 2004; Scerra et al., 2001). Addition of urea in treatments 3 and 4 significantly increased ruminal pH and NH3N. Iow pH of fresh orange pulp silage and decreased rumination and chewing activity lead to lower rumen pH treatment 1 (Krause and Combs, 2003).

Conclusion: The results experiment showed that the citrus pulp silage treated with urea, produced suitable alternative from protein source for fattening lambs and reduced costs, also partly resolved the problem of disposal of byproducts in the factories. So that 15% citrus pulp in diet improvements digestibility of nutrients, daily weight gain, feed conversion ratio and fattening lambs performance without negative effect.
-----------------------------------------
Background and Objective: The medicinal plant Origanum vulgare. subsp. vulgare in the Lamiaceae family has been widely used by Iranian people for the treatment of respiratory, gastrointestinal and neurologic disorders. The present study was carried out to evaluate possible anxiolytic effects of aqueous extract of O. vulgare leaves and the flowering branches in rats. 
Materials and Methods: Anxiolytic activity was assessed using the elevated plus-maze test. In addition, the possible sedative effect and muscle relaxant effect were evaluated using open field test and horizontal wire test, respectively. Results: Single doses of O. vulgare extract(50, 100 and 200 m/kg) were administered intraperitoneally in male rats. Control rats were treated with an equal volume of saline, and the positive control rats with diazepam. In the elevated plus-maze, O. vulgare extract(200 mg/kg) increased percent of time spent on open arms(p < 0.001), and open arms entries(p < 0.05), compared with saline group. In addition, the extract decreased locomotor activity in the open field test(p < 0.05). However, unlike diazepam, the O. vulgare did not cause myorelaxant effect. 
Conclusion: These results suggest that the aqueous extract of O. vulgare leaves and flowers has anxiolytic effect and may also have potential sedative effects.

-----------------------------------------
BACKGROUND: Use of different estrus synchronization protocols and artificial insemination methods made variations in fecundity of Iranian Zell ewes. OBJECTIVES: The purpose of the present study was to investigate pregnancy and lambing rates in Zell breed ewes following diverse progesterone treatment durations, eCG treatment doses and artificial insemination by transvaginal and/or laparoscopy methods. METHODS: 180 cyclic, multiparous Iranian Zell ewes 45.5±2.5kg, were used in this experiment. The ewes were allocated randomly to 3 different groups (n = 60). Estrus was synchronized using CIDR for 10 (A group), 12 (B group) and 14 (C group) days. At CIDR removal time, the ewes in each group was assigned into 3 subgroups (n = 20 and received eCG (0, 400 and 500 IU), respectively. 54 hours after CIDR removal, the ewes in each subgroup was randomly divided into 2 equal groups (n=10) and inseminated by transvaginal and laparoscopy, respectively. RESULTS: While combination of eCG treatment and CIDR removal increased pregnancy rate in all groups, the number of estrus have been augmented only in A and B groups. The artificial insemination by laparoscopy method made higher pregnancy and lambing rate compared to transvaginal technique. CONCLUSIONS: 500 IU eCG administration simultaneous with CIDR removal and artificial insemination by laparoscopy exhibited the best performance for pregnancy and lambing rate in Iranian Zell ewes.
-----------------------------------------
The hot springs in special areas in Ramsar, a northern coastal town in Iran, contain 226Ra and 222Rn. The natural radiation effects, radiosensitivity or adaptive responses, on the inhabitants of high natural radiation in Ramsar were studied. The single cell gel electrophoresis was used to monitor DNA damages. Three groups of volunteers were selected, one from high natural background radiation areas as the case group and two from normal background radiation areas as controls (control 1 and control 2). The latter one had the similar living situation to case group while the other (control 2) had different living situation from the other groups. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PMNCs) were separated and irradiated by 60Co source at five different gamma doses. It was found that the spontaneous level of DNA damage and the induced DNA damage in all challenging doses in case group was considerably higher than control groups (p < 0.05). On the other hand, the repair rate in those volunteers, who received less than 10.2 mSv/y was significantly more than the control groups. In the contrary, individuals who live in homes with more than 10.2 mSv/y had incomplete repair. Additionally the plasma and urinary levels of vitamin C were measured spectrophotometrically. Although the concentration of vitamin C of plasma was equal in case and control 1 groups, the urinary level of vitamin C was found to be lower in the case group.
-----------------------------------------
Background:
Visceral Leishmaniasis(VL) is a spreading potentially fatal zoonosis in Iran mimicking many other
diseases in infancy which differs from VL in some other regions in terms of it’s clinical characteristics and response to therapy; earlier and better management is quite effective for life saving.
Patients and Methods:
 All cases with final diagnosis of VL,2months to 12 years who were discharged from Ali Asghar
children hospital from 1976 to 2010 were enrolled in this descriptive-analytic retrospective study; demographic,clinical, paraclinical parameters as well data concerning initial response to treatment were gathered and analyzed by appropriate
statistical methods by SPSS software.
Results:
 58 patients with final diagnosis of Kala azar were admitted in Ali asghar children hospital from 1976 to
2010.36 cases(62%) were male; mean age of patients was 30 months(SD=24.98); Most cases had been admitted in
spring (21cases,36%) and winter(18cases,31%),43% were living in Tehran and around Tehran.Fever was the most
common symptom and observed in 54 cases(93.1%)followed by splenomegaly,hepatomegaly,pallor and cough. There
was a significant association between fever onset until admission and presence of splenomegaly(P value=0.015), weight
loss(P vaue=0.025)and pallor(0.029).Most cases(93%) had been treated by Glucantime; mostly with doses less than 20
mg/kg/day and there was no significant difference regarding initial response(stopping fever) between those who got
final dosages less than or equal to 20mg/kg/day and those who received higher doses.
Conclusion: 
Comparing to previous studies,there were some differences concerning presenting symptoms and signs on
admission probably due to late diagnosis of VL in recently infected areas. Glucantime still has good effect for VL in
Iran and it’s lower doses might also be effective for treatment although follow up studies are needed
-----------------------------------------
It is necessary to have a working knowledge of the quantity and quality of the water resources especially in arid and semi-arid regions. Shahrekord plain has a 551 Km2 total area where groundwater is discharging almost at 230 MCM annually for drinking and agriculture. The main objective of this study was mapping of Shahrekord aquifer groundwater quality and comparison with the drinking water standard limits. Some of the chemical properties such as Cations, Anions, Electrical Conductivity (EC), Total Hardness (TH) and Total Dissolved Solids (TDS) were measured four times (spring and autumn 2004 and 2005). The results show that the chemical concentration in north-western part of the aquifer was lower than southern part. Bicarbonate and Calcium have the maximum value however they are lower than the standard limits. The TH in the wells varies from 150 to 300 (mg/lit/CaCo3). The water is classified as hard water based on TH. The results show that there was not considerable difference in TH and TDS values between spring and autumn seasons.

Increasing population increases more water needs and wastewater production. Surface waters and groundwater are polluted where there is no wastewater treatment plant. The manmade activity increases Electrical Conductivity (EC), Na, CI, S04 and N03 in groundwater. The maximum concentration level (MCL) of CI and S04's ion in surface water and groundwater is 250 ppm. The main objective of this study was mapping of Shahrekord aquifer groundwater quality and comparison with the water standard limits.

Shahrekord plain with 551 km2 area is located in the CHB province, Iran at 32° 07" to 32° 25" latitude and 50° 38" to 51° 10" longitude. Shahrekord aquifer includes 417, 59 and 159 agricultural, drinking water and industrial usage wells, respectively. It also has 79 Qanats and 40 springs where they are discharging almost 230 MCM water from the aquifer annually. Eleven wells were selected for groundwater sampling and measurement of chemical indexes. The positions of the wells were determined using global positioning system (GPS) and drawn using Maplnfo software (Fig. 1). Fig. 1 also shows the groundwater flow direction in the aquifer. The overall flow direction is from north to the south.

Water sample was collected from the 11 wells in spring and autumn 2004 and spring and autumn 2005.

The water sample analyzed for total hardness (TH), total dissolve solid (TDS), electrical conductivity (EC), cations and anions (Carbonate, Bicarbonate, Sulfate, Chloride, Calcium, Potassium, Magnesium and Sodium) based on the standard method.

The water quality was classified using Wilcox diagram and the anion and cation compared by Aquachem software. The nitrate concentration was measured in 17 wells, in summer 2004. Base on the maps and the field observation the research results were concluded.

As the results for the spring and autumn were similar, therefore, only the map for the spring is presented here.

According to Fig. 1 and 2 there are two regions in the aquifer based on TDS, southern and northern part. The northern part (well no 1 to 6) has less TDS where the southern (well no 7 to 11) has grater TDS value. Maximum of TDS concentration happened at well no. 9 where concentration is close to 500 ppm.
It is almost equal to the international standard limits for drinking water. Therefore, it may be considered as point source of TDS pollution. Wells no. 9 was located in a village where the wastewater discharges to the aquifer directly.

600 ----------j

550 r~l

500 ]

450 |

^ 400 I

I 350 [-1 |

•2= 300 - ]

p 250 i— p-i r~| [

200 |

150 |

100 |

50 |

0 lLJ LJ L L. I-I r 1, '
1 23456789 10 11 Well no

Fig. 2: The TDS value in spring 2005

From the groundwater flow direction it is expectable that TDS increase gradually to the southern part of the aquifer. This process happens in four seasons where is analyzed (spring and autumn 2004, 2005). Other part of the aquifer doesn't have a pollution risk. Fig. 3 shows the mapping of TH in spring 2004. Fig. 3 shows that most part of the aquifer has TH values from 150 to 300 mg/lit/CaCo3 categorized as hard water. This is expected because of the geology of the plain. However the TH values of total wells are lower than the standard limits. Based on the data, the Shahrekord groundwater quality is classified hard water.
Groundwater Quality Mapping in Shahrekord Aquifer
Fig. 3: Total hardness distribution in spring 2004

EC has the same results as TDS because it has a linear relation with TDS. Fig. 4 shows Wilcox diagram. It shows that ten of the wells classified as C2Si (i.e. average EC and low Na). Only one well is classified (well no 9) in C3Si class (i.e. saline water).
CI 33d
1330 «
Salinity Hazard (Cond)
Fig. 4: Water quality classification using Wilcox diagram

Nitrate mapping is presented in Fig. 5. The maximum nitrate concentration value was 37 mg/lit in the northern parts of the aquifer where it has the minimum EC and TDS. It seems that the most important factor on nitrate contamination is agricultural deep percolation and N-based fertilizer consumption in agriculture. The northern part of the aquifer has agricultural land use and the vadose zone is too thin. Thus, the water table is close to the soil surface and runoff and nitrate is leached to the groundwater. Nevertheless the total concentration is lower than the standard limits (50 mg/1) but it is increasing and should be monitored.
18
Fig. 5: The Nitrate Concentration in the Shahrekord Aquifer (mg/1)

-----------------------------------------
